---


---

<h1 id="solutions-mouse-over">03.2 Solutions: Mouse Over</h1>
<p>Here are possible solutions for the practice challenges. There are many ways of solving any problem in Java, and your answer may vary, or even be better!</p>
<h3 id="missions-one-colored-quadrants">Missions One: Colored Quadrants</h3>
<p>Modify your code so that the background changes to a different color for each of the four quadrants (such as red, blue, green, and yellow).</p>
<pre><code>void setup() {
  size(600, 600);
}

void draw() {
 
  if (mouseX &lt; width/2 &amp;&amp; mouseY &lt; height/2) { // top left
    background(255, 0, 0); // red
  } else if (mouseX &gt; width/2 &amp;&amp; mouseY &lt; height/2){ // top right
    background(0, 0, 255); // blue
  } else if (mouseX &gt; width/2 &amp;&amp; mouseY &gt; height/2){ // bottom right
    background(0, 255, 0); // green
  } else if (mouseX &lt; width/2 &amp;&amp; mouseY &gt; height/2){ // bottom left
    background(255, 255, 0); // yellow
  } else {
    background(0); // not really necessary, because this will never occur
  }
  
  stroke(255);
  line(width/2, 0, width/2, height);
  line(0, height/2, width, height/2);
}
</code></pre>
<h3 id="mission-two-smaller-targets">Mission Two: Smaller Targets</h3>
<p>Modify your code to have a square near the middle of the screen. Change the background color only when the mouse is over the square.</p>
<p>This solution uses variables for the x, y, width, and height of the rectangle. I made each value different so that it is easier to tell them apart on the screen. You could “hard code” these values instead of using variables, but this way it is easier to change the size and location of the rectangle.</p>
<pre><code>int x = 200;
int y = 150;
int w = 175;
int h = 275;

void setup() {
  size(600, 600);
}

void draw() {
 
  if (mouseX &gt; x &amp;&amp; mouseY &gt; y &amp;&amp; mouseX &lt; x+w &amp;&amp; mouseY &lt; y+h) {
    background(255, 0, 0); // red
  } else {
    background(0); 
  }
  
  stroke(255);
  rect(x, y, w, h);
}
</code></pre>
<h3 id="mission-three-refactor">Mission Three: Refactor</h3>
<p>Let’s refactor our code! Make your mouse detection code into its own method called mouseOver(). Have this method take an x, y, width, and height and return true or false, so that your draw method looks like this:</p>
<pre><code>void draw() {
	if (mouseOver(x, y, w, h)) {
    	background(255, 0, 0);
    } else {
    	background(0);
    }
}
</code></pre>
<p>After this method is complete, you will have something that you can use over and over for all of the buttons you create in your projects!</p>
<p>Here is my version of the method:</p>
<pre><code>boolean mouseOver(int x, int y, int width, int height) {
if (mouseX &gt; x &amp;&amp; mouseY &gt; y &amp;&amp; mouseX &lt; x+w &amp;&amp; mouseY &lt; y+h) {
    return true;
  } else {
    return false; 
  }
}
</code></pre>
<p>Notice that when I create the method, I call the variables it requires (known as <strong>parameters</strong>) “width” and height", but the variables I pass in (known as <strong>arguments</strong>) are called “w” and “h”. Remember that these names don’t need to match, they only need to be the same variable type (int, float, etc.). If you give the variables a descriptive name in your method deceleration (the <strong>parameters</strong>) these will show up as hints in your IDE helping you and other remember what variables (<strong>arguments</strong>) are required.</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Written with <a href="https://stackedit.io/">StackEdit</a>.</p>
</blockquote>

